---
title: Representation, error and learning - Artificial Intelligence Lab
slug: artificial-intelligence-laboratory
categories: education
image: /assets/img/featured/magritte-pipe.png
---

The goal of the laboratory is to make explicit the learning process for a
software (`Machine`), through two simple and intuitive activities (modules).
The reference technique for Machine Learning that will be presented to the class
is the `Artificial Neural Network` (ANN). This technique has distinguished itself
in recent years, both in research and in industry, for its wide use in the
classification of images, text and sounds.
Explaining the classification process of an object involves four fundamental
aspects:
1. **the choice of the training model objects** and the training process of the machine;
2. **the perception of the object** (from the machine point of view) and/or 
its representation, its association with a class and its denomination;
3. the comparison with the known examples, the perception of differences with
respect to the initial representation, **the recognition of the error**;  
4. **the acquisition of new knowledge**, intended as an extension of previous
knowledge that manifests itself through the ability to classify a new element
(learning).

The proposed modules are:
- [Ceci n’est pas une pipe! This is not Artificial Intelligence!]()
- [Error and Learning. When do the machines learn?]()

At the end of lab, the student is able to identify the best criteria to provide 
examples that can validate an automated learning model.
